tensorflow/compiler/xla/g3doc/index.md, before:

# XLA: Optimizing Compiler for Machine Learning

XLA (Accelerated Linear Algebra) is a domain-specific compiler for linear
algebra that can accelerate TensorFlow models with potentially no source code
changes.

The results are improvements in speed and memory usage: most internal benchmarks
run ~1.15x faster after XLA is enabled. The dataset below is evaluated on a
single NVidia V100 GPU:

<div style="width:90%; margin:auto; margin-bottom:10px; margin-top:20px;">
<img style="width:90%" src="./images/tf_xla_performance.png">
</div>

## Introduction

When a TensorFlow program is run, all of the operations are executed
individually by the TensorFlow executor. Each TensorFlow operation has a
precompiled GPU kernel implementation that the executor dispatches to.

XLA provides an alternative mode of running models: it compiles the TensorFlow
graph into a sequence of computation kernels generated specifically for the
given model. Because these kernels are unique to the model, they can exploit
model-specific information for optimization. For example, let's look at an
optimization XLA does in the context of a simple TensorFlow computation:

```
def model_fn(x, y, z):
  return tf.reduce_sum(x + y * z)
```

Run without XLA, the graph launches three kernels: one for the multiplication,
one for the addition and one for the reduction. However, XLA can optimize the
graph so that it computes the result in a single kernel launch. It does this by
"fusing" the addition, multiplication and reduction into a single GPU kernel.
Moreover, this fused operation does not write out the intermediate values
produced by `y*z` and `x+y*z` to memory; instead it "streams" the results of
these intermediate computations directly to their users while keeping them
entirely in GPU registers. Fusion is XLA's single most important optimization.
Memory bandwidth is typically the scarcest resource on hardware accelerators, so
removing memory operations is one of the best ways to improve performance.

## Enable XLA for TensorFlow models

### Auto-clustering

A simplest way to start using XLA in TensorFlow models is to enable
_auto-clustering_, which automatically finds _clusters_ (connected subgraphs)
within the TensorFlow graph which can be compiled and executed using XLA.
Auto-clustering on GPU can be enabled by either modifying the `TF_XLA_FLAGS`
environment variable:

```
$ TF_XLA_FLAGS=--tf_xla_auto_jit=2 path/to/your/tf/program
```

Or by setting a configuration value within the program:

```
import tensorflow as tf

tf.config.optimizer.set_jit(True)

# ... the rest of your program ...
```

Note: The JIT level is cached for a session, and can only be set in the very
beginning of the program. In order to change it midway through, the session
needs to be cleared: `tf.keras.backend.clear_session()`

Auto-clustering is currently optimized for GPU workloads, but it can also be
enabled on CPU by additionally using the flag `--tf_xla_cpu_global_jit`:

```
$ TF_XLA_FLAGS="--tf_xla_auto_jit=2 --tf_xla_cpu_global_jit" path/to/your/program
```

For a detailed usage example, see the
[auto-clustering tutorial colab](./tutorials/autoclustering_xla.ipynb).

### Explicit compilation

Explicit compilation API offers a more fine-grained control for choosing which
functions should be compiled with XLA. However, it requires restructuring source
code, as not all TensorFlow operations can be represented in XLA. That is, using
explicit compilation on API on functions which can not be represented in XLA
results in an exception.

#### TF2: Use `@tf.function(experimental_compile=True)`

Optimizing sections of the program using
[`tf.function`](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/function) is a
standard approach for
[improving performance](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/customization/performance)
of TF2 programs. You can enable compilation with XLA by setting the
`experimental_compile` argument of `tf.function` to `True`.

#### TF1: Use `xla.compile`

If you are using TF1, you can use the `xla.compile` API for explicit compilation
using XLA. See the [tutorial colab](./tutorials/xla_compile.ipynb) for usage
examples.

### AOT (Ahead-of-time) compilation for CPU with `tfcompile`

You can also use a standalone [`tfcompile`](./tfcompile) tool,
which converts TensorFlow graph into executable code (for CPU only).

## Inspect compiled programs

XLA provides introspection facilities which let you inspect the generated
programs. To dump the generated programs, use the environment variable
`XLA_FLAGS`:

```
$ XLA_FLAGS="--dump_hlo_as_text --xla_dump_to=/tmp/generated"
TF_XLA_FLAGS="--tf_xla_auto_jit=2" my/tensorflow/program
```

After the dumping is performed, you can find the following files in
`/tmp/generated`:

-   `module_XXXX.*_optimizations.txt` Generated
    [XLA programs](./operation_semantics.md), one per each compiled cluster.
    Attaching those when submitting XLA bug reports is extremely helpful!

-   `module_XXXX.ir-*.ll` Generated files in
    [LLVM](https://llvm.org/docs/LangRef.html) intermediate representation, with
    [NVPTX](https://llvm.org/docs/NVPTXUsage.html) intrinsics.

-   `module_XXXX.ptx` Generated
    [PTX](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/parallel-thread-execution/index.html)
    files.

You can also dump the graph visualizing the embedding of XLA clusters inside of
the TensorFlow graph with:

```
$ TF_DUMP_GRAPH_PREFIX=/tmp/generated TF_XLA_FLAGS="--tf_xla_clustering_debug"
```

## Supported platforms

Auto-clustering is supported on NVIDIA GPUs, and ahead-of-time compilation is
supported on x86-64 CPUs. Auto-clustering support on multi-GPU environments and
on a CPU is experimental.

## Generating great bug reports

A bug report is much easier to reproduce if it includes dumps for the generated
XLA programs and the used auto-clustering embedding.
To generate them for a TensorFlow program running with auto-clustering, launch:

```
$ TF_DUMP_GRAPH_PREFIX=/tmp/generated \
  TF_XLA_FLAGS="--tf_xla_clustering_debug --tf_xla_auto_jit=2" \
  XLA_FLAGS="--xla_dump_hlo_as_text --xla_dump_to=/tmp/generated" \
    my/tensorflow/program"
```

When filing bugs, attach the contents of the `/tmp/generated` directory
(referenced above).

If possible, try to isolate
a bug to a single XLA program by using the
[`replay_computation`](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/compiler/xla/tools/replay_computation.cc)
and iteratively running it on generated programs.

## XLA Frontends

Apart from TensorFlow, XLA programs can be generated by:

-   [JAX](https://github.com/google/jax): Composable transformations of
    Python+NumPy programs
-   [Julia](https://github.com/JuliaTPU/XLA.jl): The Julia language for
    scientific computing
-   [PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/xla): PyTorch framework

## Further reading

-   [XLA Architecture](./architecture.md): Overview of the XLA architecture
-   [XLA - TensorFlow, Compiled](https://developers.googleblog.com/2017/03/xla-tensorflow-compiled.html):
    Read on Google Developers Blog
-   Check out the
    [XLA source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/compiler/xla)
    on Github!

<iframe frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="1" allow="accelerometer; autoplay;
encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" width="640" height="360"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kAOanJczHA0?origin=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.tensorflow.org&amp;autohide=1&amp;showinfo=0&amp;video-id=kAOanJczHA0&amp;enablejsapi=1&amp;widgetid=1"
id="widget2" data-title="YouTube video player"></iframe>

Commit message:

[XLA Docs] Clarify limitations of xla.compile and experimental_compile=True
PiperOrigin-RevId: 275148026
Change-Id: I8ce8b4dfcff7b0dc8bcb0e08d962b52e65a18110

tensorflow/compiler/xla/g3doc/index.md, after:

# XLA: Optimizing Compiler for Machine Learning

XLA (Accelerated Linear Algebra) is a domain-specific compiler for linear
algebra that can accelerate TensorFlow models with potentially no source code
changes.

The results are improvements in speed and memory usage: most internal benchmarks
run ~1.15x faster after XLA is enabled. The dataset below is evaluated on a
single NVidia V100 GPU:

<div style="width:90%; margin:auto; margin-bottom:10px; margin-top:20px;">
<img style="width:90%" src="./images/tf_xla_performance.png">
</div>

## Introduction

When a TensorFlow program is run, all of the operations are executed
individually by the TensorFlow executor. Each TensorFlow operation has a
precompiled GPU kernel implementation that the executor dispatches to.

XLA provides an alternative mode of running models: it compiles the TensorFlow
graph into a sequence of computation kernels generated specifically for the
given model. Because these kernels are unique to the model, they can exploit
model-specific information for optimization. For example, let's look at an
optimization XLA does in the context of a simple TensorFlow computation:

```
def model_fn(x, y, z):
  return tf.reduce_sum(x + y * z)
```

Run without XLA, the graph launches three kernels: one for the multiplication,
one for the addition and one for the reduction. However, XLA can optimize the
graph so that it computes the result in a single kernel launch. It does this by
"fusing" the addition, multiplication and reduction into a single GPU kernel.
Moreover, this fused operation does not write out the intermediate values
produced by `y*z` and `x+y*z` to memory; instead it "streams" the results of
these intermediate computations directly to their users while keeping them
entirely in GPU registers. Fusion is XLA's single most important optimization.
Memory bandwidth is typically the scarcest resource on hardware accelerators, so
removing memory operations is one of the best ways to improve performance.

## Enable XLA for TensorFlow models

### Auto-clustering

A simplest way to start using XLA in TensorFlow models is to enable
_auto-clustering_, which automatically finds _clusters_ (connected subgraphs)
within the TensorFlow graph which can be compiled and executed using XLA.
Auto-clustering on GPU can be enabled by either modifying the `TF_XLA_FLAGS`
environment variable:

```
$ TF_XLA_FLAGS=--tf_xla_auto_jit=2 path/to/your/tf/program
```

Or by setting a configuration value within the program:

```
import tensorflow as tf

tf.config.optimizer.set_jit(True)

# ... the rest of your program ...
```

Note: The JIT level is cached for a session, and can only be set in the very
beginning of the program. In order to change it midway through, the session
needs to be cleared: `tf.keras.backend.clear_session()`

Auto-clustering is currently optimized for GPU workloads, but it can also be
enabled on CPU by additionally using the flag `--tf_xla_cpu_global_jit`:

```
$ TF_XLA_FLAGS="--tf_xla_auto_jit=2 --tf_xla_cpu_global_jit" path/to/your/program
```

For a detailed usage example, see the
[auto-clustering tutorial colab](./tutorials/autoclustering_xla.ipynb).

### Explicit compilation

Explicit compilation API offers a more fine-grained control for choosing which
functions should be compiled with XLA. However, it requires restructuring source
code, as not all TensorFlow operations can be represented in XLA. That is, using
explicit compilation on API on functions which can not be represented in XLA
results in an exception.

#### TF2: Use `@tf.function(experimental_compile=True)`

Optimizing sections of the program using
[`tf.function`](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/function) is a
standard approach for
[improving performance](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/customization/performance)
of TF2 programs. You can enable compilation with XLA by setting the
`experimental_compile` argument of `tf.function` to `True`.

Note: `experimental_compile` only works in
[eager](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/eager) mode.

#### TF1: Use `xla.compile`

If you are using TF1, you can use the `xla.compile` API for explicit compilation
using XLA. See the [tutorial colab](./tutorials/xla_compile.ipynb) for usage
examples.

Note: Gradient computation of graph in `xla.compile()` is prohibited because it
can cause performance degradation. To avoid this issue, move gradient
computation inside `xla.compile()`.

### AOT (Ahead-of-time) compilation for CPU with `tfcompile`

You can also use a standalone [`tfcompile`](./tfcompile) tool,
which converts TensorFlow graph into executable code (for CPU only).

## Inspect compiled programs

XLA provides introspection facilities which let you inspect the generated
programs. To dump the generated programs, use the environment variable
`XLA_FLAGS`:

```
$ XLA_FLAGS="--dump_hlo_as_text --xla_dump_to=/tmp/generated"
TF_XLA_FLAGS="--tf_xla_auto_jit=2" my/tensorflow/program
```

After the dumping is performed, you can find the following files in
`/tmp/generated`:

-   `module_XXXX.*_optimizations.txt` Generated
    [XLA programs](./operation_semantics.md), one per each compiled cluster.
    Attaching those when submitting XLA bug reports is extremely helpful!

-   `module_XXXX.ir-*.ll` Generated files in
    [LLVM](https://llvm.org/docs/LangRef.html) intermediate representation, with
    [NVPTX](https://llvm.org/docs/NVPTXUsage.html) intrinsics.

-   `module_XXXX.ptx` Generated
    [PTX](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/parallel-thread-execution/index.html)
    files.

You can also dump the graph visualizing the embedding of XLA clusters inside of
the TensorFlow graph with:

```
$ TF_DUMP_GRAPH_PREFIX=/tmp/generated TF_XLA_FLAGS="--tf_xla_clustering_debug"
```

## Supported platforms

Auto-clustering is supported on NVIDIA GPUs, and ahead-of-time compilation is
supported on x86-64 CPUs. Auto-clustering support on multi-GPU environments and
on a CPU is experimental.

## Generating great bug reports

A bug report is much easier to reproduce if it includes dumps for the generated
XLA programs and the used auto-clustering embedding.
To generate them for a TensorFlow program running with auto-clustering, launch:

```
$ TF_DUMP_GRAPH_PREFIX=/tmp/generated \
  TF_XLA_FLAGS="--tf_xla_clustering_debug --tf_xla_auto_jit=2" \
  XLA_FLAGS="--xla_dump_hlo_as_text --xla_dump_to=/tmp/generated" \
    my/tensorflow/program"
```

When filing bugs, attach the contents of the `/tmp/generated` directory
(referenced above).

If possible, try to isolate
a bug to a single XLA program by using the
[`replay_computation`](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/compiler/xla/tools/replay_computation.cc)
and iteratively running it on generated programs.

## XLA Frontends

Apart from TensorFlow, XLA programs can be generated by:

-   [JAX](https://github.com/google/jax): Composable transformations of
    Python+NumPy programs
-   [Julia](https://github.com/JuliaTPU/XLA.jl): The Julia language for
    scientific computing
-   [PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/xla): PyTorch framework

## Further reading

-   [XLA Architecture](./architecture.md): Overview of the XLA architecture
-   [XLA - TensorFlow, Compiled](https://developers.googleblog.com/2017/03/xla-tensorflow-compiled.html):
    Read on Google Developers Blog
-   Check out the
    [XLA source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/compiler/xla)
    on Github!

<iframe frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="1" allow="accelerometer; autoplay;
encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" width="640" height="360"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kAOanJczHA0?origin=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.tensorflow.org&amp;autohide=1&amp;showinfo=0&amp;video-id=kAOanJczHA0&amp;enablejsapi=1&amp;widgetid=1"
id="widget2" data-title="YouTube video player"></iframe>
